Clean up + autodeploy (#5)
GryphonRacingFSAE/Discord-Bot: README.md

# GRacingBot (Discord-Bot)

## About

A Discord bot used internally on our server to provide the following services:

> - Monitor and backup Audit logs (locally and on the server itself)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Monitor and backup audit logs (locally and on the server itself)
```
why capital?

- Schedule events and countdown for events in specific chats

> - Monitor our shop and send/update on whether the shop is open/closed (WIP)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Monitor our shop door(s) and update on whether the shop is open/closed (WIP)
```

> - Semi-automatic verification of members in discord (WIP)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Semi-automatic verification of members in the Discord server (WIP)
```

## Setup

- Install [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/en) & ensure it is installed to PATH.
- Create a discord bot & discord server for private development
  - [This](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/create-a-discord-bot-with-javascript-nodejs/) is quite a good guide.
  - Invite the bot to your server with these permissions:
    ![image](https://github.com/GryphonRacingFSAE/Discord-Bot/assets/36043275/20f4ef5f-900d-4ca2-ade2-e2d04a2d7fd6)
- Populate .env with the required variables:

```ini
DISCORD_BOT_TOKEN=... # Bot auth token
DISCORD_GUILD_ID=... # Guild ID of the server you're testing with
DISCORD_APPLICATION_ID=... # Application ID of your bot
```

### Build + Run

```bash
npm install # Install dependencies
npm run build # Transpile TypeScript to JavaScript

> node dist/deploy-commands.js # Register any new `/` commands (if applicable):
> node dist/index.mjs # Run Discord bot:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
node dist/deploy-commands.js # Register any new slash commands (if applicable)
node dist/index.mjs # Run Discord bot
```

```

## Development

### Shop Status Monitoring (WIP) - Evan

> We have an ESP32 at the main shop entrance monitoring if it's open or closed, if the status changes, it sends a POST request to a http server with the discord bot, which then sends a message to the Discord

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have an ESP32 at the main shop entrance monitoring if it's open or closed, if the status changes, it sends a POST request to an HTTP server with the Discord bot, which then sends a message to the server
```

### Semi-Automatic Verification (WIP) - Danny

> Fetch latest team roster + payment status from onedrive (TBD how), verify email, verify student number, verify student ID? If passing all requirements, the user is given the role "verified".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fetch latest team roster + payment status from OneDrive (TBD how), verify email, verify student number, verify student ID? If passing all requirements, the user is given the role "Verified".
```

### Countdown - Danny

> Initiate a countdown from a captain or lead, update the countdown every 5 minutes, and push it to the latest in the chat every day. Save countdowns locally to preserve countdowns between launches

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Initiate a countdown from a Captain or Lead, update the countdown every 5 minutes, and push it to the latest in the chat every day. Save countdowns locally to preserve countdowns between launches.
```

### Audit Log Backup - Evan

> Download the audit logs every week for the past week, and upload them to discord to the audit-logs channel (hidden by default). Can also be uploaded manually via command by Captains and Leads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Download the audit logs every week for the past week, and upload them to Discord to the audit-logs channel (hidden by default). Can also be uploaded manually via command by Captains and Leads.
```

### Deployment - Dallas

> This bot is run on the Embedded subsection's shop computer, it's run in a docker container and locally saved files are mounted onto the filesystem so we can use them non-volatility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This bot is run on the Embedded subsection's shop computer, it's run in a docker container and locally saved files are mounted onto the filesystem to ensure non-volatility.
```
